
Changes between 2011 and 2013 Scrum Guides

    A section on Artifact Transparency has been added. Scrum relies on transparency. Decisions to optimize value and control risk are made based on the perceived state of the artifacts. To the extent that transparency is complete, these decisions have a sound basis. To the extent that the artifacts are incompletely transparent, these decisions can be flawed, value may diminish and risk may increase.
    Sprint Planning is now one event. Two topics are addressed in it: What can be done this Sprint, and How will the chosen work be done. After the Development Team forecasts the Product Backlog items for the Sprint, the Scrum Team crafts a Sprint Goal. The Sprint Goal creates coherence in the Development Team’s work that would not be present in separate initiatives without a common goal. Note the formal inclusion of a Sprint Goal.
    The Product Backlog is refined rather than groomed. The refined Product Backlog items are transparent, well enough understood and granular enough to be input for the Sprint Planning and for selection for the Sprint. Product Backlog items with this transparency are called “Ready.” Ready and Done are two states that reinforce transparency.
    Scrum prescribes its events to create regularity and to minimize the need for meetings not defined in Scrum. All events are time?boxed events, such that every event has a maximum duration. A Sprint, as container event, has a fixed duration that cannot be shortened or lengthened. The remaining events may end whenever the purpose of the event is achieved; ensuring an appropriate amount of time is spent without allowing waste in the process.
    The importance of the Daily Scrum as a planning event is reinforced. Too often it is seen as a status event. Every day, the Development Team should understand how it intends to work together as a self?organizing team to accomplish the Sprint Goal and create the anticipated Increment by the end of the Sprint. The input to the meeting should be how the team is doing toward meeting the Sprint Goal; the output should be a new or revised plan that optimizes the team’s efforts in meeting the Sprint Goal. To that end, the three questions have been reformulated to emphasize the team over the individual:
        What did I do yesterday that helped the Development Team meet the Sprint Goal?
        What will I do today to help the Development Team meet the Sprint Goal?
        Do I see any impediment that prevents me or the Development Team from meeting the Sprint Goal?
    The concept of value is reinforced to use in the Sprint Review. During the Sprint Review, the Scrum Team and stakeholders collaborate about what was done in the Sprint. Based on that and any changes to the Product Backlog during the Sprint, attendees collaborate on the next things that could be done to optimize value.

